[serverless] Add some initial storage layout docs (#295)
google/trillian-examples: serverless/internal/layout/README.md

Layout
======

This doc describes the on-disk layout and format of the serverless log files.

> :warning: this is still under development, and the exact layout and contents
> of the serverless log structure may well change.

Broadly, the layout consists of a self-contained directory hierarchy whose

> contents represents the entire state of the log. With one exception, the

Reviewer: nit: my first reading of this had "With one exception" following on from the previous statement about self-contained directory. It isn't that. But it could just be me.

Author: Flipped around, does that scan better for you?

contents and structure of this directory is designed to allow it to be safely
and indefinitely cached by clients.

Inside the directory you'll find:

 * :file_folder: leaves/
 * :file_folder: seq/
 * :file_folder: tile/

>  * :page_facing_up: state

Reviewer: nit: the order of these not matching the order below is a little distracting.

Author: rejiggered

represents the latest state of the log tree.
This is the *only* file in the serverless log data set which *should not* be
indefinitely cached by serving infrastructure or clients.

seq/
----
`seq/` contains a directory hierarchy containing leaf data for each sequenced
entry in the log.

To avoid creating a large directory containing many files, the following scheme
is used: the sequence number is interpreted as a 48 bit number, e.g.
`0x123456789a`, and a prefix directory hierarchy is created from that like so:
`.../seq/12/34/56/78/9a`.

leaves/
-------
`leaves/` contains files which map all known leaf hashes to their position in
the log.

Similarly to `seq/`, a prefix directory scheme is used: given a leaf hash
`0x0123456789ABCDEF0000000000000000`, the file used to store this leaf's index
in the log would be: `.../leaves/01/23/45/6789abcdef0000000000000000`.

The contents of the file is simply the hex ASCII string representation of the
index.

tile/
-----
`tile/` contains the internal nodes of the log tree.

The nodes are grouped into "tiles" - these are 8 level deep "sub trees".
Each tile exists at a particular location in tile-space, identified by its

> `layer` and `index`.

Reviewer: Consider strata instead of layer. It would be consistent with the map terminology.

Author: changed

> A *perfect* tree of size 65536 would be represented by two layers of tiles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *perfect* tree of size 2^16 would be represented by two layers of tiles:
```
That's just way easier for me. But could just be me.

Author: sure, done :)

 - layer 0, 256 tiles wide, containing all the leaf hashes of the log along with
   the 7 bottom-most layers of internal nodes.
 - layer 1, 1 tile wide, containing the next 8 layers of internal nodes.

Given a `layer` of `0x0123456789` and an `index` of `0xef`, the corresponding

> fully populated tile file would be found at `.../tile/ef/0123/45/67/89`.

Reviewer: This seems surprising that the index goes before the layer. Might be useful to explain why?

Author: or... fix it;  it was Just Plain Wrong(tm), and is indeed stratum followed by index :) good spot, ta!
